README.md, before:

# react-native-audio-recorder-player

<img src="Logotype Primary.png" width="70%" height="70%" />

[![yarn Version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-native-audio-recorder-player)
[![Downloads](http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-native-audio-recorder-player)
[![CI](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![publish-package](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/publish-package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/publish-package.yml)
![License](http://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)

This is a react-native link module for audio recorder and player. This is not a playlist audio module and this library provides simple recorder and player functionalities for both `android` and `ios` platforms. This only supports default file extension for each platform. This module can also handle file from url.

## Preview

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27461460/116999369-7c3c1780-ad1a-11eb-90ff-5aa7141e7565.gif" width=300/>

## Free read

- Happy [Blog](https://medium.com/@dooboolab/react-native-audio-recorder-and-player-4aa5f26a666).

## Breaking Changes

- There has been vast improvements in [#114](https://github.com/dooboolab/react-native-audio-recorder-player/pull/114) which is released in `2.3.0`. We now support all `RN` versions without any version differenciating. See below installation guide for your understanding.

## Migration Guide

| 1._._                  | 2._._                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `startRecord`          | `startRecorder`           |
| `stopRecord`           | `stopRecorder`            |
| `startPlay`            | `startPlayer`             |
| `stopPlay`             | `stopPlayer`              |
| `pausePlay`            | `pausePlayer`             |
| `resume`               | `resumePlayer`            |
| `seekTo`               | `seekToPlayer`            |
|                        | `setSubscriptionDuration` |
| `setRecordInterval`    | `addRecordBackListener`   |
| `removeRecordInterval` | ``                        |
|                        | `setVolume`               |

## Getting started

`$ yarn add react-native-audio-recorder-player --save`

## Installation

#### Using React Native >= 0.61

[iOS only]
```sh
npx pod-install
```

#### Using React Native < 0.60

`$ react-native link react-native-audio-recorder-player`

### Manual installation

#### iOS

1. In XCode, in the project navigator, right click `Libraries` ➜ `Add Files to [your project's name]`
2. Go to `node_modules` ➜ `react-native-audio-recorder-player` and add `RNAudioRecorderPlayer.xcodeproj`
3. In XCode, in the project navigator, select your project. Add `libRNAudioRecorderPlayer.a` to your project's `Build Phases` ➜ `Link Binary With Libraries`
4. Run your project (`Cmd+R`)<

#### Android

1. Open up `android/app/src/main/java/[...]/MainApplication.java`

- Add `import com.dooboolab.RNAudioRecorderPlayerPackage;` to the imports at the top of the file
- Add `new RNAudioRecorderPlayerPackage()` to the list returned by the `getPackages()` method

2. Append the following lines to `android/settings.gradle`:
   ```
   include ':react-native-audio-recorder-player'
   project(':react-native-audio-recorder-player').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, 	'../node_modules/react-native-audio-recorder-player/android')
   ```
3. Insert the following lines inside the dependencies block in `android/app/build.gradle`:
   ```
     compile project(':react-native-audio-recorder-player')
   ```

### Post installation

On _iOS_ you need to add a usage description to `Info.plist`:

```xml
<key>NSMicrophoneUsageDescription</key>
<string>This sample uses the microphone to record your speech and convert it to text.</string>
```

On _Android_ you need to add a permission to `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
```

Also, android above `Marshmallow` needs runtime permission to record audio. Using [react-native-permissions](https://github.com/yonahforst/react-native-permissions) will help you out with this problem. Below is sample usage before when before staring the recording.

```ts
if (Platform.OS === 'android') {
  try {
    const grants = await PermissionsAndroid.requestMultiple([
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE,
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE,
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.RECORD_AUDIO,
    ]);

    console.log('write external stroage', grants);

    if (
      grants['android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED &&
      grants['android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED &&
      grants['android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED
    ) {
      console.log('Permissions granted');
    } else {
      console.log('All required permissions not granted');
      return;
    }
  } catch (err) {
    console.warn(err);
    return;
  }
}
```

Lastly, you need to enable `kotlin`. Please change add the line below in `android/build.gradle`.

```diff
buildscript {
  ext {
      buildToolsVersion = "29.0.3"
      minSdkVersion = 21
      compileSdkVersion = 29
      targetSdkVersion = 29
+     kotlinVersion = '1.3.41'

      ndkVersion = "20.1.5948944"
  }
  repositories {
      google()
      jcenter()
  }
  dependencies {
      classpath("com.android.tools.build:gradle:4.1.0")
+     classpath "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-gradle-plugin:$kotlinVersion"
  }
...
```


## Methods

All methods are implemented with promises.

| Func                  |        Param        |      Return       | Description                                                                  |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------: | :---------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mmss                  |  `number` seconds       |     `string`      | Convert seconds to `minute:second` string.                                   |
| addRecordBackListener | `Function` callBack     |     `void`        | Get callback from native module. Will receive `current_position`, `current_metering` (if configured in startRecorder)          |
| addPlayBackListener   | `Function` callBack     |      `void`       | Get callback from native module. Will receive `duration`, `current_position` |
| startRecorder         |   `<string>` uri? `<boolean>` meteringEnabled?      |  `Promise<void>`  | Start recording. Not passing uri will save audio in default location.  |
| stopRecorder          |                         | `Promise<string>` | Stop recording.                                                              |
| startPlayer           |   `string` uri? `Record<string, string>` httpHeaders?       | `Promise<string>` | Start playing. Not passing the param will play audio in default location.    |
| stopPlayer            |                         | `Promise<string>` | Stop playing.                                                                |
| pausePlayer           |                         | `Promise<string>` | Pause playing.                                                               |
| seekToPlayer          |  `number` miliseconds   | `Promise<string>` | Seek audio.                                                                  |
| setVolume             |   `doulbe` value        | `Promise<string>` | Set volume of audio player (default 1.0, range: 0.0 ~ 1.0).                  |

## Customizing recorded audio quality (from `2.3.0`)

```
interface AudioSet {
  AVSampleRateKeyIOS?: number;
  AVFormatIDKeyIOS?: AVEncodingType;
  AVNumberOfChannelsKeyIOS?: number;
  AVEncoderAudioQualityKeyIOS?: AVEncoderAudioQualityIOSType;
  AudioSourceAndroid?: AudioSourceAndroidType;
  OutputFormatAndroid?: OutputFormatAndroidType;
  AudioEncoderAndroid?: AudioEncoderAndroidType;
}
```

> More description on each parameter types are described in `index.d.ts`. Below is an example code.

```
    const audioSet: AudioSet = {
      AudioEncoderAndroid: AudioEncoderAndroidType.AAC,
      AudioSourceAndroid: AudioSourceAndroidType.MIC,
      AVEncoderAudioQualityKeyIOS: AVEncoderAudioQualityIOSType.high,
      AVNumberOfChannelsKeyIOS: 2,
      AVFormatIDKeyIOS: AVEncodingOption.aac,
    };
    const meteringEnabled = false; 

    const uri = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startRecorder(path, meteringEnabled, audioSet);
    
    this.audioRecorderPlayer.addRecordBackListener((e: any) => {
      this.setState({
        recordSecs: e.current_position,
        recordTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(
          Math.floor(e.current_position),
        ),
      });
    });
```

## Default Path

- Default path for android uri is `sdcard/sound.mp4`.
- Default path for ios uri is `sound.m4a`.

## Usage

```javascript
import AudioRecorderPlayer from 'react-native-audio-recorder-player';

const audioRecorderPlayer = new AudioRecorderPlayer();

onStartRecord = async () => {
  const result = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startRecorder();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.addRecordBackListener((e) => {
    this.setState({
      recordSecs: e.current_position,
      recordTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(
        Math.floor(e.current_position),
      ),
    });
    return;
  });
  console.log(result);
};

onStopRecord = async () => {
  const result = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.stopRecorder();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.removeRecordBackListener();
  this.setState({
    recordSecs: 0,
  });
  console.log(result);
};

onStartPlay = async () => {
  console.log('onStartPlay');
  const msg = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startPlayer();
  console.log(msg);
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.addPlayBackListener((e) => {
    this.setState({
      currentPositionSec: e.current_position,
      currentDurationSec: e.duration,
      playTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(Math.floor(e.current_position)),
      duration: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(Math.floor(e.duration)),
    });
    return;
  });
};

onPausePlay = async () => {
  await this.audioRecorderPlayer.pausePlayer();
};

onStopPlay = async () => {
  console.log('onStopPlay');
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.stopPlayer();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.removePlayBackListener();
};
```

## TIPS

If you want to get actual uri from the record or play file to actually grab it and upload it to your bucket, just grab the resolved message when using `startPlay` or `startRecord` method like below.

To access the file with more reliability, please use [rn-fetch-blob](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rn-fetch-blob). For example, below.

```javascript
const dirs = RNFetchBlob.fs.dirs;
const path = Platform.select({
  ios: 'hello.m4a',
  android: `${this.dirs.CacheDir}/hello.mp3`,
});

const uri = await audioRecorderPlayer.startRecord(path);
```

Also, above example helps you to setup manual path to record audio. Not giving path param will record in `default` path as mentioned above.

## Try yourself

1. Goto `Example` folder by running `cd Example`.
2. Run `yarn install && yarn start`.
3. Run `yarn ios` to run on ios simulator and `yarn android` to run on your android device.

### TODO

- [x] Volume Control
- [x] Sync timing for recorder callback handler

## Special Thanks

[mansya](https://github.com/mansya) - logo designer.

## Help Maintenance

I've been maintaining quite many repos these days and burning out slowly. If you could help me cheer up, buying me a cup of coffee will make my life really happy and get much energy out of it.
<br/>
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/dooboolab" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/purple_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: auto !important;width: auto !important;" ></a>
[![Paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/mktg/Logo/pp-logo-100px.png)](https://paypal.me/dooboolab)

Commit message:

Rewrite and expose swift bridge
Use `AVPlayer` instead of `AVAudioPlayer` this time.

README.md, after:

# react-native-audio-recorder-player

<img src="Logotype Primary.png" width="70%" height="70%" />

[![yarn Version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-native-audio-recorder-player)
[![Downloads](http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-native-audio-recorder-player)
[![CI](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![publish-package](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/publish-package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/actions/workflows/publish-package.yml)
![License](http://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-native-audio-recorder-player.svg?style=flat-square)

This is a react-native link module for audio recorder and player. This is not a playlist audio module and this library provides simple recorder and player functionalities for both `android` and `ios` platforms. This only supports default file extension for each platform. This module can also handle file from url.

## Preview

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27461460/116999369-7c3c1780-ad1a-11eb-90ff-5aa7141e7565.gif" width=300/>

## Free read

- Happy [Blog](https://medium.com/@dooboolab/react-native-audio-recorder-and-player-4aa5f26a666).

## Breaking Changes

- From version `3.0.+`, a critical migration has been done. Current version is not much different from version `2.0.+` in usability, but there are many changes internally.
  1. Codebase has been re-written to [kotlin for Android](https://kotlinlang.org) and [swift for iOS](https://swift.org).
  [iOS]
  * [AVAudioPlayer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/avfaudio/avaudioplayer) has been migrated to [AVPlayer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/avfoundation/avplayer) which supports stream and more possibilities [#231](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/issues/231), [#245](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/issues/245), [#275](https://github.com/hyochan/react-native-audio-recorder-player/issues/275).

- There has been vast improvements in [#114](https://github.com/dooboolab/react-native-audio-recorder-player/pull/114) which is released in `2.3.0`. We now support all `RN` versions without any version differenciating. See below installation guide for your understanding.

## Migration Guide

| 1._._                  | 2._._                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `startRecord`          | `startRecorder`           |
| `stopRecord`           | `stopRecorder`            |
| `startPlay`            | `startPlayer`             |
| `stopPlay`             | `stopPlayer`              |
| `pausePlay`            | `pausePlayer`             |
| `resume`               | `resumePlayer`            |
| `seekTo`               | `seekToPlayer`            |
|                        | `setSubscriptionDuration` |
| `addPlayBackListener`  | `addPlayBackListener`     |
| `setRecordInterval`    | `addRecordBackListener`   |
| `removeRecordInterval` | ``                        |
|                        | `setVolume`               |

## Getting started

`$ yarn add react-native-audio-recorder-player --save`

## Installation

#### Using React Native >= 0.61

[iOS only]
```sh
npx pod-install
```

#### Using React Native < 0.60

`$ react-native link react-native-audio-recorder-player`

### Manual installation

#### iOS

1. In XCode, in the project navigator, right click `Libraries` ➜ `Add Files to [your project's name]`
2. Go to `node_modules` ➜ `react-native-audio-recorder-player` and add `RNAudioRecorderPlayer.xcodeproj`
3. In XCode, in the project navigator, select your project. Add `libRNAudioRecorderPlayer.a` to your project's `Build Phases` ➜ `Link Binary With Libraries`
4. Run your project (`Cmd+R`)<

#### Android

1. Open up `android/app/src/main/java/[...]/MainApplication.java`

- Add `import com.dooboolab.RNAudioRecorderPlayerPackage;` to the imports at the top of the file
- Add `new RNAudioRecorderPlayerPackage()` to the list returned by the `getPackages()` method

2. Append the following lines to `android/settings.gradle`:
   ```
   include ':react-native-audio-recorder-player'
   project(':react-native-audio-recorder-player').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, 	'../node_modules/react-native-audio-recorder-player/android')
   ```
3. Insert the following lines inside the dependencies block in `android/app/build.gradle`:
   ```
     compile project(':react-native-audio-recorder-player')
   ```

## Post installation

#### iOS

On _iOS_ you need to add a usage description to `Info.plist`:

```xml
<key>NSMicrophoneUsageDescription</key>
<string>Give $(PRODUCT_NAME) permission to use your microphone. Your record wont be shared without your permission.</string>
```

Also, add [swift bridging header](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31716413/xcode-not-automatically-creating-bridging-header) if you haven't created one for `swift` compatibility.

<img width="800" alt="1" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27461460/111863065-8be6e300-899c-11eb-8ad8-6811e0bd0fbd.png">


#### Android

On _Android_ you need to add a permission to `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
```

Also, android above `Marshmallow` needs runtime permission to record audio. Using [react-native-permissions](https://github.com/yonahforst/react-native-permissions) will help you out with this problem. Below is sample usage before when before staring the recording.

```ts
if (Platform.OS === 'android') {
  try {
    const grants = await PermissionsAndroid.requestMultiple([
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE,
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE,
      PermissionsAndroid.PERMISSIONS.RECORD_AUDIO,
    ]);

    console.log('write external stroage', grants);

    if (
      grants['android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED &&
      grants['android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED &&
      grants['android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO'] ===
        PermissionsAndroid.RESULTS.GRANTED
    ) {
      console.log('Permissions granted');
    } else {
      console.log('All required permissions not granted');
      return;
    }
  } catch (err) {
    console.warn(err);
    return;
  }
}
```

Lastly, you need to enable `kotlin`. Please change add the line below in `android/build.gradle`.

```diff
buildscript {
  ext {
      buildToolsVersion = "29.0.3"
      minSdkVersion = 21
      compileSdkVersion = 29
      targetSdkVersion = 29
+     kotlinVersion = '1.3.41'

      ndkVersion = "20.1.5948944"
  }
  repositories {
      google()
      jcenter()
  }
  dependencies {
      classpath("com.android.tools.build:gradle:4.1.0")
+     classpath "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-gradle-plugin:$kotlinVersion"
  }
...
```


## Methods

All methods are implemented with promises.

| Func                  |        Param        |      Return       | Description                                                                  |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------: | :---------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mmss                  |  `number` seconds       |     `string`      | Convert seconds to `minute:second` string.                                   |
| addRecordBackListener | `Function` callBack     |     `void`        | Get callback from native module. Will receive `current_position`, `current_metering` (if configured in startRecorder)          |
| addPlayBackListener   | `Function` callBack     |      `void`       | Get callback from native module. Will receive `duration`, `current_position` |
| startRecorder         |   `<string>` uri? `<boolean>` meteringEnabled?      |  `Promise<void>`  | Start recording. Not passing uri will save audio in default location.  |
| stopRecorder          |                         | `Promise<string>` | Stop recording.                                                              |
| startPlayer           |   `string` uri? `Record<string, string>` httpHeaders?       | `Promise<string>` | Start playing. Not passing the param will play audio in default location.    |
| stopPlayer            |                         | `Promise<string>` | Stop playing.                                                                |
| pausePlayer           |                         | `Promise<string>` | Pause playing.                                                               |
| seekToPlayer          |  `number` miliseconds   | `Promise<string>` | Seek audio.                                                                  |
| setVolume             |   `doulbe` value        | `Promise<string>` | Set volume of audio player (default 1.0, range: 0.0 ~ 1.0).                  |

## Able to customize recorded audio quality (from `2.3.0`)

```
interface AudioSet {
  AVSampleRateKeyIOS?: number;
  AVFormatIDKeyIOS?: AVEncodingType;
  AVNumberOfChannelsKeyIOS?: number;
  AVEncoderAudioQualityKeyIOS?: AVEncoderAudioQualityIOSType;
  AudioSourceAndroid?: AudioSourceAndroidType;
  OutputFormatAndroid?: OutputFormatAndroidType;
  AudioEncoderAndroid?: AudioEncoderAndroidType;
}
```

> More description on each parameter types are described in `index.d.ts`. Below is an example code.

```
    const audioSet: AudioSet = {
      AudioEncoderAndroid: AudioEncoderAndroidType.AAC,
      AudioSourceAndroid: AudioSourceAndroidType.MIC,
      AVEncoderAudioQualityKeyIOS: AVEncoderAudioQualityIOSType.high,
      AVNumberOfChannelsKeyIOS: 2,
      AVFormatIDKeyIOS: AVEncodingOption.aac,
    };
    const meteringEnabled = false; 

    const uri = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startRecorder(path, meteringEnabled, audioSet);
    
    this.audioRecorderPlayer.addRecordBackListener((e: any) => {
      this.setState({
        recordSecs: e.current_position,
        recordTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(
          Math.floor(e.current_position),
        ),
      });
    });
```

## Default Path

- Default path for android uri is `sdcard/sound.mp4`.
- Default path for ios uri is `sound.m4a`.

## Usage

```javascript
import AudioRecorderPlayer from 'react-native-audio-recorder-player';

const audioRecorderPlayer = new AudioRecorderPlayer();

onStartRecord = async () => {
  const result = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startRecorder();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.addRecordBackListener((e) => {
    this.setState({
      recordSecs: e.current_position,
      recordTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(
        Math.floor(e.current_position),
      ),
    });
    return;
  });
  console.log(result);
};

onStopRecord = async () => {
  const result = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.stopRecorder();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.removeRecordBackListener();
  this.setState({
    recordSecs: 0,
  });
  console.log(result);
};

onStartPlay = async () => {
  console.log('onStartPlay');
  const msg = await this.audioRecorderPlayer.startPlayer();
  console.log(msg);
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.addPlayBackListener((e) => {
    this.setState({
      currentPositionSec: e.current_position,
      currentDurationSec: e.duration,
      playTime: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(Math.floor(e.current_position)),
      duration: this.audioRecorderPlayer.mmssss(Math.floor(e.duration)),
    });
    return;
  });
};

onPausePlay = async () => {
  await this.audioRecorderPlayer.pausePlayer();
};

onStopPlay = async () => {
  console.log('onStopPlay');
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.stopPlayer();
  this.audioRecorderPlayer.removePlayBackListener();
};
```

## TIPS

If you want to get actual uri from the record or play file to actually grab it and upload it to your bucket, just grab the resolved message when using `startPlay` or `startRecord` method like below.

To access the file with more reliability, please use [rn-fetch-blob](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rn-fetch-blob). For example, below.

```javascript
const dirs = RNFetchBlob.fs.dirs;
const path = Platform.select({
  ios: 'hello.m4a',
  android: `${this.dirs.CacheDir}/hello.mp3`,
});

const uri = await audioRecorderPlayer.startRecord(path);
```

Also, above example helps you to setup manual path to record audio. Not giving path param will record in `default` path as mentioned above.

## Try yourself

1. Goto `Example` folder by running `cd Example`.
2. Run `yarn install && yarn start`.
3. Run `yarn ios` to run on ios simulator and `yarn android` to run on your android device.

### TODO

- [x] Volume Control
- [x] Sync timing for recorder callback handler

## Special Thanks

[mansya](https://github.com/mansya) - logo designer.

## Help Maintenance

I've been maintaining quite many repos these days and burning out slowly. If you could help me cheer up, buying me a cup of coffee will make my life really happy and get much energy out of it.
<br/>
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/dooboolab" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/purple_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: auto !important;width: auto !important;" ></a>
[![Paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/mktg/Logo/pp-logo-100px.png)](https://paypal.me/dooboolab)
